The engineers and
scientists at AT&T are credited with
most of the concepts that came that
made the cell phones possible.
And engineers at Motorola
are credited with
making the first cell
phone call back in 1973.
And in 1973, there was this nice movie,
Play it Again, Sam, a Woody Allen movie.
One of the characters, Dick,
is a workaholic businessman dealing in
real estate and
he's played by Tony Roberts.
Each time he appears in a scene, he calls
his office to give them the telephone
number where he can be reached, for how
long, and then the next contact number.
So the point is the concept
of being able to talk to anyone at anytime
and people being able to reach you,
it met a real unmet need and
the mobile phone would
actually solve this problem.
So AT&T commissioned a big consultancy
company, McKinsey and Company,
to forecast how many cell phones
would be in usage by 2000.
So they did all their number crunching and
came back with the answer 900,000.
The real number of subscribers in
the year 2000 was 109 million in
US, and by that time there were
one billion cell phones worldwide.
And by that time there were actually
more cell phones than landlines.
So, McKinsey missed to connect the dots
between the science fiction predictions,
Star Trek communicator,
the articles by Arthur C Clarke, Isaac
Asimov actually predicted the complete
use of tablet as we see,
back in 1954 in the Foundation series.
So McKinsey missed to connect the science
fiction with the engineering reality,
particularly where the processing
power doubles every 18 months.
So, AT&T got out of cellular
business based on McKinsey's advice,
but lots of other people
jumped on the bandwagon.
This mistake cost AT&T $12 billion,
because in 1994 thre was a very successful
analog cellular phone company called McCaw
cellular, they went and bought them.
So, the point I'm trying to convey
is this, it is very important
to get a reasonable estimate of
the potential market size, and
this is particularly true for
disruptive technologies.
It's like using the typewriter
sales statistics to predict
the total addressable market size for
desktops with word processing software.
And it is even more
important not to mistake
disruptive technologies
with niche opportunities.
Okay to McKinsey's defense,
they could not have forecast
the actual demographics that would
actually pay to use the system.
No one could have.
This revolution happened
right in front of our eyes.
There are now more people with cell phone,
than a toothbrush, or
access to toilet, in the world.